hi everyone welcome to unacademy my name is
Seep Bhabhi Aa Baji Educator In NEET UG
category and we're starting today
My new chapter is called Sexual
Reproduction in Flowering Plants and We
are going to finish this chapter not today but
Tomorrow because we will do it properly in detail
We will prepare notes of NCERT together
I will read each line and make sure
that we can do our P Y cues right here
go saying hi everybody so many children
All those children have come to the class
Mark your attendance in mark attendance
there is a medium way that is to like the
Session The child who has never read this chapter before
Even a child who hasn't read it will understand it
The child has already read this chapter
The revision will be done in a good manner and
The child is studying for the first time too
You will understand each and every line, that is, it is a detail
It is a one shot but it is a time bound one shot
That means in a short time we can read every single line
I will go after reading it, I will go after writing every line
We will look at NCERT and highlight it
You will go home and there will be nothing left for you
Accept Solving Few Questions That Did Not Happen
You have to have DPP ready DPP will come to your home
I mean, meet you when you get home, after class.
You will get DBB and its notes immediately
for that you have to join me
[music]
This is the name of my children
Biology official you will go by this name
To you
It remains like this, so it doesn't feel tough after today
whoever feels it won't feel it and whoever doesn't
I think it is a very good thing, it is 100% mine
done, I will revise it as I go, son
yes we will go ahead we will write every line here
We will also see what our focus is today
See what our focus is today. Today we
are going to cover this chapter in two shorts
I will get it done, which means it will happen today and tomorrow as well
will be
oh look here today we are going to do
Flr Pre Fertilization Events Double
Fertilization Post Fertilization We are tomorrow's
We will do it in class, that means today we have mailed
Preparation for gametogenesis needs to be done for male gamete
I want to make and female gumd want to make tomorrow what
will somehow convert the male gamete to female
over the body of the female i.e. over the stigma
will leave and then double fertilization
we will see it happening and then we will see the
Post Fertilization Events are OK Post
Fertilization events then take place a little bit
Let's highlight from here what it says
Our NCERT is saying we are not lucky
that plants reproduce sexually the
Myriads of flowers that we enjoy gazing at
scents perfumes which we know so much mantra
I get fascinated by seeing their colors
my children smell it ok so all this
What is all this, son, it helps us
It's not just for us to look good
Aesthetics is not for us
helps in sexual reproduction
Flirts do not exist only for us to be together
used for our own selfish all flowering
Plants Ratio Sexual Reproduction Correct
is just for us to look beautiful
Flowers are not just for betterment
What are the flowers actually
actually perform joe fly
what do they perform sexually
Reproduction performance is ok
So first of all let's do the basics from here
Then when we people start writing then we will say
hain flower is a big feature ticket
Angiosperms Do You Know the Plant Kingdom
In we have Thallophyta Bryophyta
Pteridophyta Gymnosperms &
angiosperms but fruits and flowers i.e.
Flower and fruit only and only for whom
The last one has a characteristic feature
Which is the last one? Your Angiosperms
Before this, no fruits come i.e. no fruit
Neither do the flowers come nor do the flowers come
In which do you get to see fruits
This whole chapter is in angiosperms
What angiosperms are basically about
Now you have taken a look at the new syllabus
If you said so, you must have seen the plant
The portion containing angiosperms in the kingdom which
I removed the previous one last year too.
It was removed and now it is still removed, why did you remove it?
given because it was really overlapping
because for all angiosperms
Your separate chapter is going on, that is
Sexual Reproduction Flowering Plants
This chapter deals entirely with angiosperms
If he does it then I am saying that it is very harmful for humans
With whom does Flower have an intimate relationship?
together flowers are object of aesthetics
Aesthetic means beauty and looking beautiful
Flowers Ord Mental Social Religious Cultural
Even though value is worship, we still call flowers
We take you to some event, wedding or anything
Even if it happens we still plant flowers
they have always been used as a symbol of
Conveying important human feelings such as
that love brother if someone gets married then bouquet
Whose bouquet do you not give in the vase
what do you give me, you just give me flowers
They are symbolic of love, affection and happiness
Grief Morning Even If Someone Dies
Whose tribute do we pay
we offer flowers
I will offer it to you, ok
yes now son ji is saying to be a biologist
Flowers R Morphology and Brawl Gicle
Marvels and the Sights of Sexual
You are saying reproduction earling
have you read the parts of flower can you
name two parts of flower in which two
The Most Important Unit of Sexual
Reproduction develops from parts of flower
what do you need to do to draw
you will have to make a diagram come to me
Children draw diagrams of
NCERT is asking about the parts of the flower
flower then tell me its parts
You will have to come first, son, with your PPF
Have you come with your PPF or not?
So what is flower? Flower is a condensed form.
is condensed modified shoot is fler is a
Is condensed modified shoot ok?
The shoe typical meristem is florizan
what gets converted into with the help of
converts into floral meristem
So now the name of that shoe typical meristem
The floral meristem is now ready, there are leaves on it
It will not come now, how will the flowers come on it
okay let's go here these basics where we
Let's read in the chapter on Morpho G.
Let's read it, now we have to see that flower
On which does the flower actually rest
There are total four parts, these are all the parts
R resting on ten stock what about this stock
Tell me the name of this stock
What is called stock, what is called pedicel
The pedicel of the stock is this idea of the same pedicel
This is the svelte portion
What do we call the svelte portion
what do thalamus say kids thalamus now
All parts of the flower above the thalamus
The first part is yes the outer
the outer most world is
called as here the leaves which you see
can you see what is this apple what is this
This is my children's apple, this group of apple
this is the world of apples what will it be called
what would the calyx be called calyx this outer
It is the most beautiful world, there will be many supple
I have made only one here for this
If you go to the inside side, brother, it will look beautiful
The flower's leaves come, aren't they beautiful?
Look at the flower's leaves in this manner
comes it is called this is a whirl
From outside its name is Petal Petal
The herd which is there, that herd which knows, son
yes keep writing to this group what are your people
They say Corolla this is second from the
The outer most part goes towards the inside
what do we see here mail
the part is also visible okay what is this
it is called this is called as stem this is
called as stem and then the innermost one
What will you see if you look to the side
Female Reproductive Part and the Female
Reproductive part Female reproductive
part this is called as carpal and pistol
this is called as carpal and pistol is ok
These are my kids Carpal and Pistol
Total four parts How many four parts of
Our floor now four of these four parts
Some of the parts are directly
Let's role play in the process of
reproduction because son chapter
Reproduction is the rest of the process
We don't have to read much about reproduction
All events have to be read pre fertilization
Fertilization and Post Fertilization
Events so friend two parts like this direct
We will play two roles, two parts, which will be
They do play but indirect roles
If you play then it is a direct role
we will play those circles, circles mean like this
Do you remember Gola, son, there used to be a washing machine
From where does the name Whirl Pool come Whirl Pool
so the whirlpool is moving isn't it, go round and round
if yes then there are two essential words a
there are four types of words in flower
what shall we call these two worlds
Essential Words will say okay?
We will call two worlds as essential worlds
What will non essential words non say
It is not essential it is waste
It is important, we will play his role too but
What is its importance
Has an indirect role in reproduction
Essential Indirects with Direct Roles
If we talk about non essentials then first of all essentials
Which of my words will come to me?
Female Reproductive Part Essential Worls
I come to me
Who makes a gynaecologist?
[music]
who makes andro shium stamine ok
He has a direct role because we know
is this the female part and which one is it
there is male part then non
Essentials that have an indirect role
I have at least one in an indirect role
will go to the calyx that is the sepal and the other
Which Corolla will come now ma'am you told me
It is non-essential, meaning they have an indirect role
how is it an indirect role yes how is it
What is the indirect role, see the role of the apple
that if I talk about this outer most world
okay which world is this outer most
It will protect the flower
during bud stage it will
Protect Flowers During Bud Stage When
who is there at the time when a flower bud
Who will protect you at that time?
shall my children sepal come now
Petals what is the role of petals anyone
There will definitely be an indirect role
Son, these are leaves of beautiful colors
The petals are of a white colour and red
I will give you yellow colour or green colour
attract insects for pollination right
What will be their role in pollination?
Plants that are insect pollinated will come
is there anything to call those insects away
There must be at least one beautiful leaf
It is colorful plus with these
The scent emits a wonderful smell
income comes out from the shoulder because of which what is it
if they get attracted then this happened
all my parts of flowers are clear
Let's go, all my parts are off
Flower then what does my NCERT say
Let's take a look, let's look at it side by side
I keep looking to the side, what do you say, son?
Is it right, we will keep doing it as we go, son?
we will see side by side one by one
read the paragraphs simultaneously so that
There is no work left for you to do at home
You just need to go home and revise, okay?
If we try everything then we will do it much before the actual
Flower is seen on plant the decision that
The plant is going to have flower is taken
Place Several Hormonal and Structural
Changes Are Initiative
Further Development of Floral Prime Yam
I didnt tell you what I had earlier
Shoe is a typical meristem then what
Florigen is released through the leaves
What is the release of Florijan then beta ji
It is decided that now shoe typical meristem
what will be called floral meristem
What will be called floral meristem now
What will grow above this floral meristem
Flowers will come, okay what are you saying
are in fluorescence is formed which bear
The Floral Buds and Then Flowers
what is inflorescence it's the access
on whomever the flowers bloom first
Inflorescence will form on top of it
Will the flowers come slowly now?
If you have read Morpho G then you will know
There are two types of inflorescence
what kind of a race is this, a race keeps on taking place
race mos which is the other one cy mos race mos
in the acropetal manor in the base pital manor
Everyone has to remember, if they don't want to forget then they are saying
Are these flowers male and female reproductive
Structures that is Andro Shiam and Yanos
differentiable up now saying you can
Recollect that andro shium consist of
Words of stem that are male reproductive
organ is in gyno what will happen a single or
There will be multiple carpels which would be present in a female
If it is a reproductive organ then it is yours
Basic what happened children our basic
Now today we have discussed about male and female reproductive organs.
What are the parts to make guts from?
Let's talk about the first mailer
will do mail what is stem
microspongym and pollen grain what is this
all three are same name should I call the stem the same
can i say microspongyum
Microspongiae is also called Pollen Green
can I say yes or no in the chat box yes and
no tell me is this the same is this the same
Tell me all three
I want an answer, yes, yes, you
I want to write it son, you can highlight it if you want
I can do it as per my wish
I am highlighting randomly, highlighted anyway
Will I give you the NCERT separately?
These three are the same name which makes one feel that
All three have the same name, that child is wrong
The child is thinking wrong, these are not the same three names
it is different what is stem stem
Microsporophyll is present in this
Inside the microsporophyll there is micro
posium then what is made from this pore
ultimately pollen grains are made okay
pollen grains are formed okay kids
Let's write it down, we'll start with the stem
Sman is not Microspongyum Sman's
Microspongeum Microspongeum inside
What will happen if your pollen grains get stuck?
let me right stem what then if this
If there is no microspongia, then what is the stem?
has microsporophyll
is sporophyll now remember the word sporophyll
what is it used for
In sporophytes when shoe typical meristem
converted into floral meristem then shoe te
In the apical meristem where the leaf was to form
It was supposed to become a leaf but what did it become?
What in the floral meristem becomes the stem
okay so it is a
Microsporophyll grows well if it is attached to a stem
If seen from the right side, what is above it is the most
First of all it's sitting on top of your thalamus
I make the thalamus my pedicel down
this is its stem it looks like this
how many parts does a stem mummy have
there are two parts what is the upper part
will be called
what will the anther bottom part be called
Filament anther and filament now filament
take a look at this part
of the filament and this part is a part
This is the filament that is closest to the thalamus
It is near or not, there is a part like this
of the filament that is away from the thalamus we call
we are talking about relatives
about with respect to relativity ok
there is one that is close to the thalamus and one
For the one who is far away and is near,
use the term
the proximal end of something that is far away
for that we use the term distal hai na distal so
You get this question, it is very important
The question is whether this thing is present in P Y also
that a which part of the filament is attached to
the other to you will say the distal part of
Filament is attached to the other which part
of filament is attached to the thalamus so you
The proximal part of the will is attached to
Thalamus is a simple trick to remember
the for distal the for away the from distal the from
far away from whom is relativity far away from whom
From the thalamus to the part close to the thalamus
What is the part away from the proximal thalamus
My distal is fine filament
what is the long part that itself
It is sterile so we cannot produce gametes
Son, this is a long part.
Slenderman
This fertile part will make itself fertile
the part that is the other is the fertile
The Filament Part Is Not the Fertile Part
okay so let's stem I told you
what is microsporophyll now son this
what to do to the stem what to do to the sman
What should Anthar do? Just break it and see
Do it son, let me break the anther and see
my kids break the anther next
They break the pages of Anthar, what did I say?
took section when i used this anther
When the section was made then the scene became like this Parag Kosh
It is said that the children who are pollen collectors answer the question
Those who are from Hindi medium will understand that madam will also learn
son, some hindi meaning
Scientific Hindi, anyway, I call myself Hindi
such a thing comes
no yes I know hindi but
yes what will you call it parag koosh that is the
When I cut a section of Anthar Anthar
I cut a section of this anther so I
Did you see, my antler has four ends?
The ends are visible, if there are four ends then
that means my other is actually
Tetragrammaton
Please divide it in the center, my children
If we divide it, how many lobes are formed
One lobe of the anser is this and one lobe is this, that is
my anser is by lobe kaisa anser hai by lobe
another is okay bye lobe another is now a lobe
How many places do you see in me
This is Thika my children this is Thika okay
how much of the thalamus is visible in one lobe
If you are seeing two pieces then it means you are tired
I will also put two i.e. die thicks
anther is ours ok die thick anther is a greed
look near me don't count all four we are with
If we take respect to one lobe only then
If you take it in one lobe then two are tired then this
They will say, Dr. Thaka, don't come writing tetra thicks
don't write tetra thicks and come okay now this
Microspores in Actuality Near Thaka
Now here comes Microspongia, this is mine
microspongiium okay this is it this is my
children of mine
How many micro spongium total in one anther
Tell me if micro spores are visible
Quickly find out how many in one anther
microsporum is visible tooth 4 i.e.
What is this going to be Tetra Spore Jiat
What is going to happen Tetra Spore Jiet
Because how many microspores do I have in total
geum is in four microsponges brother when
So the plant is still a young plant, then our people
This will be called microspongym, is there any problem
no, when will they tell where the plant is
Young but someday the plant will mature
No, my children, the plant will never mature
When the plant matures then this will happen
microspongiae convert into what
will go to pollen sack then on maturity on
maturity gives microspongiae
converts into pollen sack this is our
NCERT says this is our NCERT
If she says then generally my age is sperm
it is anther, this is its nature, tetra
Tetragrammaton
which one is this brother kaina rose okra cotton
Family Malvaceae This family is fine Malvaceae
She says divide everything of mine in half, okay?
What does the Malvaceae family say?
Divide everything of mine into half
what does bye lopata mean to me
drop the uni okay a die thicks place
make me mono thick make me mono thick
Give me two spora instead of tetra spora jit
give me jiam make it half bye spora jiate
give it to me it's ok bye spora jiat do it ok
Malvaceae family is fine, what will remain of ours
will there be an exception here
If there is an exception then this is what happens to Anthar
Just a general thing, now dig deeper
I'll see and see friend actually
In which layers is the tissue of the anther made?
made of
Which layers is it made of? So let's talk about it
The Wall of Anthar Okay about Anthar
I know a little more about this portion
I will cut it, wait son, are you understanding?
My children, you have to cut this much portion
and I want to take you to the next page when I
When I cut this much portion, I saw that friend
Some are outside walls and some are inside walls
what are sporozoites
don't worry children will talk about it
Anther will talk about Anther's Wall
The wall is made of a total of four layers
How many layers are there in total?
Number one tooth fur three has a function of one
There is a different function as per NCERT
If I will explain in a little detail then layer number
one is called as our epidermis me
Also tell me which is epidermis layer number two
called edge
endosseous am layer number three is called as the
middle layer middle layer and layer number four is
Called as the tippet in tippet from outside to inside
No one can come in from outside or from inside
No one can go out, it never happens
the door must always be open
So when we go from outside to inside then it will be like this
will go to the outer most endos epidermis
What is Endotherapy and Your Tapet?
What will you say to this, my children?
EE
MT ok so let's start with layer number one
the first layer number one is going to
B Epidermis One by One Special Talk
All the layers of the epidermis are fine
If I talk about the first thing, this outer
tell me it is the most layer it is the outer most layer
What will be the work if it is the outer most layer
Work is done outside, what is the use of anything outside
it happens just to give the protection that is
One it is going to be protective in nature
okay sec there is no myosis in this
These are sporophytes
being that the ploidy level is going
to be 2n there is no myosis etc in it
What will be my ploidy level?
It will remain 2n, it is not multiple layer, what is this
your single layered how are my children
Here is what I have single layered
single layered anyways mine
What NCERT says is that the first three
There are layers, let me write them down
According to NCERT, this is a little below
does
yes, NCERT says that brother of these three
Kama Epidermis Endotherapy
the work of these three is
Protection and Day
What is the sense? The work of these three is protection
End
Dess yes ji and who is left in my tape then
what is the work of tappet machine what is the work of tappet machine
What is the work of the Tapet to give nourishment
give narich ment who tells this story this
Our NCERT tells us the story
okay the job of these three is protection and
Dens and Tapet's job is my protection
But there are some other functions as well, okay
The epidermis also has some other functions
There are actually special types of cells
those which we call stomium cells
actually senses with the help of cells
anyway not moving on to the next
layer next layer which one do i have
Endosseus
next layer kids which one do i have
Endosious This Endosious is also single
it is layered what is this also what is this also
single layered there is only one layer son this is
also single layered it has son like this
long long long elongated cells
how are you
Longed3 is microscopic i
I'll tell you what it is doing
Hychrome pic means moisture
It will absorb the moisture
If you absorb it then friend, you will get it for free
it will bloom it will bloom what after it blooms
it happens at maturity give loose water and when
If any swollen thing looses the water then
It shrinks and helps in shrinking
what will they do again they will make sense
ok the shriveled petal of a day sense
It means to burst, look basically, basically
What should happen in simple language to this anther of yours
pollen green only when pollen grain is created inside
It will come out when the difference bursts, bursting means dissent
So what are all the people preparing for that
to tear apart the difference in a way
Endotherapy
Absorbs moisture, which means that it gives
R Hychrome Pick In Nature Moisture Co
you will absorb it, it will bloom
After blooming, when the water will reach maturity
When the water gets loose we will loose it, son
It will shrink and after shrinking it will be easy to
than you can burst i.e. dissipate
If you can, write a little bit
Let's write down a little bit, it is near
Alpha
Cellulose
fibers band which is hychrome pick
Hychrome pick means absorbs moisture
will and ultimately will help you in making sense
it will only help in bursting, okay
because when the swollen thing looses the water
If you do it, the shrunken thing will shrink
It is very easy to tear and once it is torn
So the pollen will spread, meaning the work of this layer
Dispersal of pollen grains also contains this
The work of the layer is my children Dispersal of
Pollen is also present in the grain, if it bursts then the pollen will
Grain spreading means dispersal
it will spread i.e. what will happen
Children will be dispersed, it is clear, yes
Kids Clear
who said atom of ring plant syllabus
I am not here Arshiya, where is it from, where is it from
Tell me where do you get this knowledge from
You bring knowledge, I also need knowledge
Son, from where do you bring me too
This knowledge is required, third layer, yes third layer
is going to be the middle layer this middle layer
it is not single layered what is it
is there two three layered ok is there two three
It is layered, okay yes, this is two to two layers.
what is this also 2n what is this also your 2n
But the special thing about the middle layer is that
Its life does not last long
It is big or small i.e. this is effie mail this
is effie me effiemade
How is the life of our middle layer son
not much short lid is ok what is it
It's a short lift, ok let's go to the next place
which one comes close
Tatum next who comes to you Tatum
If we talk about Tatum, the first thing that we should do is
is the inner most layer what is the first thing this
is the most layer second my children its
nature is not 2n this is going to be poly
Palti this is going to show polyploidy
Polyploidy means it can be 3n
it could be 4n it could be 5n plus what is this
is going to be bi-nucleated
it is actually multinucleated but
If NCERT says by nucleated then I
I write my major work by nucleated
Major what is the biggest work of tappet
Naresh mentions that the function here is going on
to be the second son of the eldest
Yes its job is to make pollen kits now this
what is a pollen kit what is a pollen kit
When we also see the structure of pollen grain
will you not see that the inside layer
intwine outside her son
A sticky layer of Agile color gets released
This is what our people call pollen kit
This pollen kit is very sticky in nature
What use will you be of helping when your son is an insect?
Flowers are pollinated by insect races
what will happen we want the insect to stick
Only then the pollen grain gets attached to the plant
will mean the plantain will stick to the green insect
so we have put a sticker here to paste it
A sticky layer has been created which our people
What does additional yellow color sticky say
layer chuch is called as pollen kit and pollen
Who is making the kit? Who is making my tape?
okay who's making it, who's making the tape
The second tape does a much more important job
he tatem makes you bush bodies which
Sporopollenin is produced Sporopollenin
Ultimately the only thing that makes an exam is the tape
The engine is making it it made these bodies
Sporopollenin was synthesized from whose body
Which is
Hardstop
Made the outer layer of meli pollen grain
whose name is
I will cover the special features of Agile Nine in a little while.
I will tell you it is resistant to alkali acid
It is most resistant to temperature and pressure
It doesn't matter, son, even if a storm comes
Let the storm come, sporopollenin remains the same
Fossilization has to be done with the help of this
i.e. pollen grain as a fossil
It is possible to store it, there are lots of them
Enzymes also make pectin collagen amize
Who is making all these enzymes of mine?
The tappet is making hormones and the eye is also making them
AA hormone is making it a little smaller
so that we can write some more functions
This is a very important layer for my children
is very very very important
Can you see the layer? All these notes are mine.
t graph you will get seap pahuja biology
Tegra is available to you by official name
Those who are left above 38800 will join
So first of all it produced a lot of enzymes
After making enzymes it produced IAA i.e.
Hormone Syntheses and Compatibility
Proteins also create compatibility proteins
Created to help with pole pistol interaction
Will do Polen Pistol interaction tomorrow
Make compatibility proteins as well, ok
gya gya so with this we are done with the wall
of anther once this wall of anther son
Let's see from here, let me see, let me show you
My children, come here quickly.
Figure 1.2a shows two parts of a stem
you need to look at the figure
no the stem has two parts
A long cylinder stock named
filament and a bi loop over it
struct by omitted struct whose name is
look at what I've seen proximal or distal
The story told is very important, look
the proximal end of the filament is attached
to thalamus P for proximal P for nearby
who has it near the thalamus okay and it
is attached to the petal of the flower and the distal end
Then who will have it? Anthar has it
gya end ho gaya mera distal d for door
This is the end of my proximal. Okay.
Next see the number and the length of the
Smans are variable in flowers of different
species yes okay okay careful okay okay
dice sex karo a typical ango sperm is
By loop each loop has two dies
Thickness Ofton Longitude Groove Runs Length
Wise Separating the Tired a Long Groove Run
See this makes my kids tired
a very long separating
there's a groove here it runs okay let's go
bylb the nature of anthar is very distinct in
Transverse section of anther now you asked
can this bilab nature go away
Appears in the longitude section
Transverse section to Transfer section
This is how cutting happens, it is a longitudinal section
when you cut the anther like this then
I went and saw the by lobe nature of Nana, he cuts like this
I looked a little at it and saw that it was cut like this
Remember the transverse section transfers
The section has four ends, it is four sided
then
Tetragrammaton
What will happen inside the sack is our pollen grain
it will be ok it will be pollen grain now look
Circular saying in transfer section
These outlines will be generally surrounded by how
many wall layer four wall epidermis ee mt
The epidermis is fine in the endosseous and tapetum
This line told directly that the three outside
Walls help in protection and dissent
this is the inner layer which is in the tape
narich is datchi and what are you saying
Tapet has dense cytoplasm
and more than one nucleus happens by
nucleated multinucleated condition which
she is here can you think of how
How Tapet Cells Could Become Byted
how would you become a son bye
Give nucleated answer, NCERT is asking for this
if the cell of the tetum has two nuclei
if they are going to be then how would they be made, how would they be made
son that keryo kinesis happened
Cytokinetics
isn't it failure of cytosis once i will tell you
I will show you the wall, please look at this
kids look at the wall
so layer number one is the epidermis number two
Endosymbiosis
[music]
Mummy cell of microspore about her
Let's also talk about the mummy of the microspore
cell will talk about it yes kids
The answer became clear till the clear wall
that wall let's go inside now first make a gumd
Let's take it and then we will read the rest of NCERT
Let's make a gumd, what happens then son
inside out our microspongy
There is a wall inside son, which tissue should I use to my heart's content?
Which is the sporo genus tissue present?
The tissue is full of young sporozoites
Live On
Number one in amazon's end neat category
Number one best seller in AIIMS has arrived
And if you look at the NEET category here
So, those kids who want to buy this book
In which you have 20 mock papers along with
It is unit wise and also full length 20
paper 20 omr along with me
kids a theory map is also a dead theory
Map means mind map, physics in it
Chemistry Bio: These are all three of my children
Look at the AIIMS and NEET category when you
You will see that it is running on number one number one
There are 20 mock papers in which PCB
All three are correct and proper in one paper
PCB 200 questions again 200 questions again
Each one has OMR with 200 questions each
There is solution with and you will get 79 questions of each chapter
K 79 this is not just about biology but also physics
Chemistry, Bio, everything is there, what are you getting?
are you getting the mind map proper
I have made a booklet of mind maps
Children who want to take amazononline.in
mother cell just now did i mention meiosis somewhere
Ploidy level changed but no change anywhere
Is this Mummy Sale, always remember it
What is in a mother cell?
meiosis occurs what happens in the mother cell
Meiosis occurs and the microspore mother cell
What becomes of your microspores
become what become
If microspore meiosis will occur then what will happen with 2n
will be children 2n what will be the result of n and
Then what does this microspore ultimately become?
do pollen grains make? do pollen grains mail
the gamete is yes and no is my pollen grain
Match
gamete i my pollen grain male gummed read
I will do it son, do the NCERT topic first
First complete the microsporogenesis
will I read NCERT later, ok?
Pollen grain is a male gum which feels
stand up, and then stand up, and then stand up
I remained standing in the class for the next one hour
stood because pollen grains male gametes
There is no pollen grain, what is it, male
there is gamho fight what is male gamho
There is a fight in this pollen grain, what is formed
are male gametes and gametophytes are formed
Let's start with the microspore mother cell
This microspore mother cell is also called
S Pollen Mother Cell MMC
Another word will come with PMC what will come
will go to PMC ok let's start my
Children Microspore Mother Cell or PMC
Will you remember the full form of MMC and PMC?
Microspore Mummy Cell Pollen Mummy Cell
lodi level 2n nothing has been teased yet
nucleus its bass single make it
Myosis One Myosis One will do it and ultimately
If you want to do myosis two then you have to do myosis one first
If we do it then we can make two nuclei from one nucleus
It divided it so this is our myosis
One Myosis One Myosis One Ultimately
will we have myosis
to meiosis to end how many cells do i have
will go one two three four we know myosis
After this, four daughter cells are formed, these four
Daughter cell has ploidy level n n n A infact
its also n a because myosis one is
reductional these too will become n a these too are mine
what will become four n a so what is this
These four circles that you saw will be called
giving these are actually
The ploidy level of microspore
Microspore is going to be stuck in four
If it does happen then we will call it tetrad
Tetradotoxin
with the help of carbohydrate which is
callose callose has to be broken down and separated
No friend, we will stick them together and keep them separate
put calcium in it to break down the callose
what will happen to you and them be different
what will happen will be different
It will come to me, it has become yours
microspore done, should I do the male part done
Let me do microspores become microspores
So where are the pollen grains and where are they from
pollen grain this much won't work let's do one
Pick up Microspore One of these
microspore pick it up here so let me
Just Take One
microspore what is this i have
Microspore now what is its ploidy level
I have n this microspore cell
Basically a big vacuum will form inside it
Will my kids become a big vehicle?
Pay attention, what will be the big one?
What will we call this process?
vacuolization is the nucleus
Put the nucleus on the periphery
put it on put it on the periphery okay
and this is what happened to me made it weird
look what you're doing
Hum Vacuolization
okay my kids so the nucleus
I pushed it into the corner here and
I made a big vehicle, now this
We call spindle fibers surrounding the nucleus
We will make asymmetric spindle fiber
What will you make? Asymmetric Spindle
Spindle fibers surrounding the fiber nucleus
they are made, they will make it asymmetric so that my
You have to do asymmetric mitosis
Basically what I have done is I did myosis
After meiosis I need to know the mitosis of this cell
but one cell has to be divided into two equal cells
do not want to break it, keep one cell big and one
If you want to keep the daughter cell small then first
Asymmetric Spindle Fiber
Create an asymmetric spill
The fiber is fine this asymmetric spindle fiber
What happened to asymmetric
mitosis
okay mitosis happened and ultimately a
How many cells will I have from the cell?
the cells will be ready, I would have made it here
Look, these two cells will become one big cell
A small cell will be created, this one on top will be created
A big cell is being formed near it, a big irregular
what is nucleus friend this cell is
called as the vegetative cell its our people
what do you say vegetative cell says
Or what will we call it our people tube
Cell will say ok tube cell plough level
Please tell me the ploidy level of this cell
yes please tell me my children's ploidy level
give
Who will tell its ploidy?
level yes who will tell ploidy
level yes who
I will tell him son, gift me study with me
You can gift it to me ma'am, you can take the board
Ma'am you buy this, you buy a phone, son one
So the free thing is becoming free for you
of cost you are getting prepared for a
It is not the turn but 10 turns are happening in that too
You have big tantrums, son of those who throw tantrums
Where is it neat, do this, do that with this
It will happen through that, yes son my board
what do you need to take it, it looks like a board
Are you getting the feeling or not
So I am feeling like a board
where has your clutch gone
anyway pencil ha so what did i ask you
This was the load level of my vegetative cells
what is it look what is it made of mitosis
mitosis in which cell mitosis occurs
If mitosis is taking place in a haploid cell then
Will my vegetative cell also be haploid
hoga this is also going to be haploid
In nature its bass cytoplasm is also more
look it's big it has more
Cytoplasm is also food material
it has a more irregular nucleus and
What it ultimately needs to make is a pollen tube
If you want to make my vegetative cell or tube
Cell Nearby Peacock
Cytoplast has more space, right?
more cytoplasm more nutrients
More Nutrients
And here we will say irregular.
I showed you the nucleus by its shape
I have given it, I will move aside, son, you will see it soon
don't worry i don't consider myself small
I will do it tomorrow, Irregular Nucleus and It
I'm basically going to form the pollen tube
ok pollen tube toy four functions what
What about the cell below the vegetative cell
The name of the cell at the bottom is the germ cell
and the generative cell so the cell below it is
called as the germ
the cell and the generative cell also its ploidy
what is its level also its ploidy level is also mine
what will remain children will remain the same because
It is formed by mitosis, it will remain the same, it is fine
GN will remain the same and ultimately what has it done
do you want to make two male guts do you want to make
I want to make two male guts okay what did this one do
If you want to make two male guts then make it
Come on my children, let's go to the next page
if so then mine
have this structure the top cell is
Generative cell The bottom cell is E
this is the germ cell i called it
What do you ultimately need to do to build guts?
There can be two cases, what can happen to me
Children, there can be two cases of talking here
About the 60th percentile of the angiosperms
okay at 60 off the angiosperms
It's a deshsus naa which is going to explode actually in another
happens at this stage
Desus Desus and Shedding
Akers at two stale stage this pollen grain
I don't have what it takes my children
Pollen grains are male gametophytes
The pollen grain comes out and spreads just like that
then when they reach the stigma
end pollen tube above the female part
When we start making it, then son ji will
This is its germ cell then it is a mixture of two male gametes
Let's make it to the two-sell stage at 60 p.m.
all are gone how many are left 40 on 40 off the
Enzo sperms survived here Enzo on this 40
what is happening in the sperm that my germ
This is a sale and it is already getting divided into two
Is mitosis taking place in the male gums?
mitosis is coming to an end
Here two male gums are being formed so 40
The Shedding and the Day Sense in Age Sperm
Shedding and the Day Sense Acres at Three Cells
You have to remember how many percent of stage
Which cell stage is it at 60?
in 2 cell stage 40 in th cell stage
okay 4 3 3 4 I will remember 1 2 3 4 th
If four comes later then 4 is 40 on 40 on
Three sale stage is ok three sale at 40
Stage yes my children let's do this thing
I wonder at what stage my pollen grain is
It comes out that I will sell two at 60 and I will sell four at 40
a small three to three cell stage
It turns out that we will remember it, let's accept it now
it's gone out, my pollen grain is gone
So let's look at pollen grains in some detail
I would have looked at
if I talk about pollen grain it is
Actually Round Structure Spherical
If you look at its diameter, its structure is 25 to
50 micrometer is given in NCERT
We have to remember 25 to 50 micrometers
Son, its diameter will be that of the pollen grain
which is the cell wall
hey that is basically called as sporo
Pollinate It Made Up of Sporopollenin
ok actually it is made up of two parts
its wall the outer part is called as the
exam and the inner part is called as the
inteen it's ok yes this is an exam
this is made up of sporopollenin batao
Who told me I made sporopollenin?
I just told you a while ago
who produced sporopollenin
tha yes who made sporopollenin come on
come on guys tell me who made Poro Pollen
tell me it was
who made sporopollenin
yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes hey
Yes
Pam is absolutely correct my bad sporo derm
The outer part of the poroderm is also made up of
of sporo pollen these bodies these bodies who
Who synthesized the release? Tatum
sporopollenin is absolutely correct
Sporopollenin is the very hard part of it
is a very hard part hard part
It is resistant to acid alkali high
The temperature doesn't matter, it's
Resistant Acid
Alkali ok high
The temperature is high and quite hard
The Hardenbergh
The designs and
patterns which are of significant kind
Taxonomy helps in classification
is our taxonomy significant
Setting out to classify the significant
there it is there son, its significant
So let's assume this is mine
what is the exam now it has become very hard
The part that is the whole of Palin
But Azan is not presented, what is in the middle
comes a knuckle comes empty space comes
That means this exam of mine is quite disturbing.
what is continuous what is discontinuous
There will be an empty space in the middle, a hole will appear
The name of the hole is indigestion what will come in the middle indigestion
What does indigestion mean? What will happen? What will happen?
my children germ pore is about to come
And from here will the pollen tube pass
This is where my children will get pollen tube from
what will she do, will she pass, okay so this is it
what is the name of this archer
Jumpor archer means hole what is this archer
It is said that if the jumpor is done then son ji will come out from inside
my pollen tube and she will pass it from here
ok so whose thing is this about my exam
Now let's talk about the inner layer
which is the layer intime so this is the
The inner layer is very thin
It's not as hard as it is and it's not thick and this
The inner layer does not have any holes
That means this layer is a continuous layer
Is it a continuous layer? What is it made of?
Pect cell sik this layer
Ecto cell low sic layer and this layer
What will you ultimately make your own pollen tube
What will you make, children pollen tube
will she make it okay will she make a pollen tube
It will make everything clear about pollen grains
Structure Yes Kids Pollen Grain
The structure is clear now, my friend, pollen
grain is basically male gametophytes
The generative cell is the vegetative cell above
This vegetative cell has plenty of it
Remember the nutrition of this vegetative cell
There was a lot of nutrition available, friend, bigger than this
Healthy highly nutritious products are made
yes you can make syrup from this
You can make tablets from this
hain pollen backs it is rich in
Nutrient-rich and nutritious
What is the reason behind this big sale?
This happened because of vegetative cells
Yes in fact son, athletes consume it
What horses do in a race
Race horses run, they are used too
it goes, the jockey sits on it
I have seen you know Hollywood series in foreign country
I have seen it in India itself, I am not sure
happens or it doesn't happen or it happens now that
It wouldn't have happened earlier brother in the olden days
There was this game in which you could play You Know Who Horse
It happens that they used to bet money on horse racing
Then you used to win and do movies
I have seen it, I mean I have seen movies and series
I have seen it myself, what do we make
Its pollen products are made
What do children make of pollen products?
why pollen products because joe pollen
It has grain and it has vegetative cells
which is a vegetative cell and is rich in
He has plenty of nutrients
Cytoplast is rich in nutrients
so what can we make from here
You can make pollen syrup tablets yourself
can make wax that's
whose consumers it consumes
is and its
Consummate of Athletes
Athletes and racehorses
horse ok so this is what happened to me
What happened to these pollen products?
After this, whose number comes second? Next
comes my children pollen
What some people are allergic to is pollen
There is also allergy to grains, what is it
Some people are also allergic to pollen grains
it happens ok yes later certain plant
Allergy to pollen grains of all plants
some times the certain does not happen
Plants like Amaranth Napom and its pollen grains
what do people get allergic to that allergy
what do we call hay fever
It is called hay fever, this pollen
Energy is called as he
Fever and Certain Plants
Look, not everyone has allergies
Very
Individual sensitive thing may happen
If you are allergic to pollen, I am not
If you have an allergy, the same thing will come out of your eyes
Water will start flowing from the nose
If it seems then this variable is some person
The body is hyper sensitive to certain allergens
It may also happen that it does not make any difference to others
can certain plant
pollen grain de r
Allergic Example Partha
rule partha rule done chino podium ho
gaya partha rule carrot grass son is this
Carrot grass may also be written as Dis
One of the major imported wheat in India
Well came along the vet
Amaras Amaranth is fine so it has hay fever
Some people even lose their breath
If you face any problem in taking it then this is what happened
Get your pollen allergy checked once again by pollen grains
It came, it was done, it burst, did it come out, what pollen
Grain never reaches stigma but it always
it will make a pollen tube itself no it is not like that
hota the pollen grains they retain the ability to
Germinate only for some time for some
Plants and some plants have very long
Has the ability to germinate for a long time
what do our people call it pollen
It is not like that even after 10 years
Even if he gets stigma, he can germinate
what would the plants have to do with it
what is pollen viability
There is pollen viability, it means
Pollen grains are not ready all the time
yes come on let's make a pollen tube no
it depends on the temperature as well
humidity period what does it mean
there is period for ch
Pollen Retains the Ability to Germinate
retain the ability to
germinate this is called as pollen viability
And this is quite variable, not that every
You can keep it in the plant for years and still
Then you won't get it germinated, it depends
Upon dash and dash depends on two things
on what does a temperature depend
Secondly, humidity is good for some plants
What is it? Pollen viability is only for 30 minutes
what does it mean if they get half an hour
I did not find any stigma inside me. There was zero stigma.
if they don't work then they won't germinate
Which plants will they use
Cereals are fine, rice wheat, what do they want
Stigma is needed within half an hour
If I don't get it then there is no work, son.
Then new pollen grain will come and it will help
right let's see what happens in a few months
few months means even after a few months if
Even if they get stigma, son, this
what will you do, will you germinate
go to manos
Family TJP Soyabean
Pulses are fine, i.e. peas, soybeans
Pulses and then Sonesh will come to you
Family Potato
Sonesh T Aloo and Brinjal Hey I wrote Aloo
you guys please write it as potato
Do not believe that ma'am has written potato as aloo
what should I do son
Roche Ok Peach Plum Rose
peach plum rose ok yes peach plum rose ts
it so whose thing is this pollen viability
So you will remember whose 30 minutes it is and few
Whose is it for months and whose is it for 30 minutes?
Now let's see who has it for a few months
We are from NCERT, come to NCERT
The male part is now clear to everyone
we have done it but let us see from
Read NCERT and every line from here
so what would you say when another was young
isn't it another young group of compact arrangements
Homogenous cells which our people call
Sporozoites
This micro sporo genesis is
will be within as the other develops sales of
Sporozoites
Padi of the
Tetra: Yes, children, please tell me quickly.
Tell me why you didn't like the session right away
From
Just make a random comment and you will understand each line
NCERT pages are not that hard, one by one
You will get the line soon, we have just started
Hey Karthik, please stand up, I will stand firm
Ploidy of time tetra is asked color answer
Kartik, who gave the correct answer to Emma?
I have given the Nimish Nandini Puja
Dhruv Bhoomi And Na Gaming What Happened?
What kind of name are you giving Laxmi is absolutely correct
Look it is clear, he himself is telling it above
that sporozoites
The answer is going to be n each cell her
What will be the ploidy of the microspore?
will remain n is the answer not 2n which gave 2n
tha will stand all the time good as each cell
What is Edge saying each sell off
Sporozoites
can form sporogenous tissue
Each cell holds the potential to become a microspore mother
The process of formation of a cell
Microspore from PMC of PMC
What was the other name you were told? MMC
MMC what do we call this process
they call it micro sporogenesis
The process of making microspores is
we did it this hole is
microsporogenesis or we can write this
The whole process is called this whole process
s micro sporogenesis because we
What are microspores making here?
Making Fine Microspore Genesis
I will say move ahead, move ahead
Microspores as they are formed are arranged in
the cluster of four cells called microspores
Tetradotoxin
Develop into pollen grain each microspore
what can pollen grain make but until then
will not make it until maturity comes
As maturity comes, what will happen?
We will take pollen grain and make it inside
Microspora geum several thousands of
Pollen grains are forms that are released with the
Dens of ants produce lots of pollen grains
There is an unlikeable female part in the female part
not so many gametophytes will be formed
one is tetradotoxin
There was a diagram based question Pegas
also one of the diagrams of hypogamy
If a question can be raised then you should recognize it
I want what it is mine
Tetradotoxin
we are making pollen grains
Microspore is also N Pollen grain is also N
what are the stages first look at the big one
sa alternative ligation then asymmetric
Spindle became one thing we made in our notes
Just notice did we take notes
am i missing something it doesn't mean if you
You are reading notes and then read NCERT
if you are there then you must have learned because
you are reading the same thing twice in a way
If you are reading the content twice then first
Where to push the nucleus of the wakla
Diya periphery pe periphery pe fir
Asymmetric spindle fibers form a larger
the small cell became vegetative
It became generative, this is what we made
You have made it, come forward now pollen grain
we're talking about pollen grains
We are talking about son Pollan Grain
represents the male gametophytes
of Hibiscus
off lori yellowish powdery pollen grains on
sprinkle your finger on it son
with your drop of water and your
Look inside the microscope and you will see many things
Different types of size, shape, color design
happen and what causes them
sporopollenin because of sporopollenin it
Look inside an electron microscope
We looked at pollen grains, how many varieties of
You can see different designs
Did you all understand it? Now everyone understands it.
Yes sir
Tell me, Ansh Tripathi is saying very good
do you use insta
Chaitanya if you use mobile then please share your ID
Tell me, we should also sit on the ta
we are also sitting on the ta
son either you tell me that
I don't want to read this I want to read this
NCERT is my double work, right?
I made your notes and wrote them all down
After that I will read your NCERT
I should sit and read each line, one by one
If I show you the diagram, it will be double my work
it is happening if you think it is not
required so please let me no yes let me
No in the comments and I will just skip it
skip this okay I will skip it but my
There is no voice from within saying that I
should I skip it i don't feel like i feel
I think I did half the work
it comes when I sleep at night
What if I don't get NCERT written or read it?
In any class, be it plus class
Children with plus will also be here regardless
This is my class, if you don't do this then I
I don't get satisfaction from within and
that day i felt like i was no good
I taught him and carrying that feeling I stayed up at night
I can't sleep so I came before going to sleep
I want you to come after reading two pages
I am half a chapter
I will teach my children in such a way that each and every one of them
Only when the line gets settled in NCERT and is memorized
360 out of 360 comes, it doesn't come like this to me
Children 360 by talking like this and asking for ID
I will never come back after making friendship
can you come please be serious what do you need
Looks like there's not much time left yet
Today I am saying that the exam is next year today
I will speak after 10 days from the exam this year
Then imagine how you would feel if the year changes in 10 days
Jayega na we will enter 2025 and 2025 is
Going to be the game changer year for you
2025 is the year that can make your life
that can ruin your life
This is the year 2025 in which you will probably be able to fulfill your dream.
You will remember for your life that it was the year when
You made me a doctor today
Diya made my life better and this is how 2025 will be like
It could be a year as well which you call life long
Regret that I read that in 2025
If I had taken it, I would have been a doctor today.
I wouldn't have been pushing around
2025 will be remembered life long, no matter how much you
Whether you become a doctor or not, I am writing this
I am giving the NEET exam the year my child appears for it
son, he never gives him that year
I forget and that year is coming after 10 days and
10 days later as soon as the water level rises
From here it will come right near your nose
then it will become hard to breathe again
Completion will not be possible, then crashes everywhere
Courses will be conducted everywhere, I am also a crash course
I will do it, I am saying it openly but
Who understands the crash course and who understands the details?
If you have studied otherwise then you will get a crush from Crash Course
It happens son, this is the truth, take admission
Go to any crash course and get the details first
You will become an uneducated crush, no use
you will not feel your syllabus
it is happening because there is a very high
You will feel that the speed is maintained
Your syllabus is coming and it is very soon
Quickly, quickly, but not your questions.
will never go away, can never go away because the questions
Questions arise from details by making notes
Questions come out easily after reading NCERT
questions come out not by raising them in a hurry
The questions came out but the syllabus was not complete
did it two turns ten turns five turns
what is it
Benefit Ultimate M is why we are sitting here
Why are you wasting your time? Questions have come out
And without reading this you won't come out
I am telling
That's absolutely correct, you can ask a dropper
How was 2024 for him from a dropper
Ask if any of you is a dropper
He can express his pain, he can feel it
I believe you had your exam on the fifth of May
The year got a little more messed up because the paper was leaked
The Supreme Court has come to an end and this has taken so long
The hearing went on, we were having doubts about the paper
it will not happen again what ever it was
I guess this year it was all but you're a dropper
ask him when the result came and when he
Took a hard decision to appear for next
I know you won't take this year again
is there maximum droppers in the class
your parents will reunite you
I will do it yes son no give the exam of 2026
Let your parents do the work for you
Consciousness will remind you that friend, I have accomplished everything
I dedicated a year to this, fought for everything
I fought with my relatives whether I will study or not
I will read this, you are doing this, there is still time
There is still time son, you still have to improve
you can still be serious right now
If you wander here and there I'm telling you
Don't kids study at last, be serious
But they buy the same thing from 10 places
Let's study from this teacher, do it from this channel
do it from this institute also
all are good but yours
I don't have enough time to cover just one chapter
Read 10 places you don't have enough time
Start lashes in a new place every 10 days
It is happening there, follow it everywhere
If you ask me to start from today then it will be done sir
teach from zero sir teach from zero madam every
The guy is teaching you from zero, my friend
Find the frequency that matches
and stick to it and don't let it go
Don't hold on to anyone else, don't let him go
no and don't hold on to anyone else then go
Preparation seems very easy to you
no son but I know the pain that you will feel
feel that you wud be able to qualify this
The exam is painful when the cut off is 600-50
The cut off is 660 and your number is 630
When it comes there is pain, ask the son
The child got 620 marks but was not selected
I got 630 marks but got selected because of that
what would be more painful nothing can happen
don't let this pain to happen still
Prevention is better than cure then apply the ointment
It doesn't matter if you do BDS
Let's take it, let's do BPT but today
You have a chance and only
For MBBS, go for MBBS KM
BDS BPT is not available just like that
Did you think that you want to do MBBS?
I thought the same thing when you were in 8th class
Nath was in class, things were much easier now
It will be very easy son, everything will be free
This is what I am getting from good teachers
Teachers who have such good ranks
I have produced my son All India
Rank Seven All India Rank Four All India
Rank 190 All India Rank 200 Sab Bachche
In AIIMS this
time read these notes these notes these
Why are you not studying NCERT?
yes you have become a fool, you are not a fool at all
Learn, you will waste your time as well as your parents'
You will waste time or else tell them
It's not in my power to go, it's a simple matter
Let's finish the story friend, go and tell me
Mom and Dad, I won't be able to do it
I will give you something just to give the paper
And if I do it then I will go to other universities
Look, give a good central exam in CET
go to university and do B.Sc ok
I understand that, but don't cheat
You are saying that you will take the NEET exam, tell me
You are saying that I will do MBBS but MBBS
preparation which demands sacrifice
She asks you to do that, you are not doing it
isn't it just be honest with yourself
yes be honest with yourself let's go
ok what were you saying pollen grain son
What is spherical shape can be asked
Their diameter is 25 to 50 micrometers
The prominent two-layered wall is of two layers
wall hai you know the hard wall is called
As the exam, from what sporopollenin is made
which is the most resistant organic matter
Is this high temperature, is it acid or alkali
It doesn't matter if any enzyme breaks it down
cannot have the enzymes of pollen grains
There is a hole, the name of this hole is Jumpor from where
Where is sporopollenin absent
Pollen grains are well preserved as fossils
Because of the presence of sporopollenin
helps in fossilization
because sporopollenin does not degrade
If it doesn't get damaged, it would lie like a fossil
It stays ok
Exercising and Design Why Do You Think
exam should be hard what is the function
of the germ pore tell me why the exam is hard
This is because eggs are formed from sporopollenin
and that outer material is protective
then it is his duty to be hard, what is the
function of germ pore tell me what is it from here
If the pollen tube comes out then NCERT
what will be the answer of this line pollen tube
The inner wall of the pollen grain will come out
cold edge inside it is thin wall
It is continuous, there is no hole in it
What is it made of? Pectin and cellulose
Pecto cellulose is the cytoplasm of the
pollen grain is surrounded by plasma
membrane when the pollen grain matches it
Contents to sell when the son's pollen is mature
then there are two cells one big one small
the big one is the cell veg tive the small one
Generous vegetative is a big one, eat lots of it
Pina Hai Irregular Shape Nucleus Hai
The generative is small and a big good line
has it appears as if it is floating in the
The cytoplasm of vegetative looks like this
The smaller cell has cytoplasm of the larger one
I'm spinning I'm floating it's a spindle
shaped with vein cytoplast and a
The nucleus is spindle shaped, what is it like
The spindle shape came over 60 and it came over 60
Pollen grain comes to the sell stage
Remaining 40 per cent comes at three cell stage
The one below is from the generative that is gummed
will make it before the shedding of the pollen grain
ok how do you remember the one with three fur
Funda I told you pollen grain son
Pollen grains from some species can cause allergies
it is a bronchodilator like asma
bronchitis example from which species
There is Parthi Niyam Carrot Grass which
Veet came to India as a Contem Ant
What is pollen allergy and what does it cause
This is a weed, it is very big, we have seen the weed
imported wheat imported wheat
So who came along for free Parthi
If the rules are right then it is free with wheat
who has come my children parthi rules and form
What did you do? We are allergic to pollen now.
Grains are rich in nutrients, son.
It has become fashionable in recent years to use
Pollen Tablet At Food Supplement Large Number
of pollen products in tablet form
It is available in the market in syrup form
And by consuming it son, performance will improve
Whose athletes and race horses are growing?
ok for athletes and race horses
Next comes viability
Who has pay viability for 30 minutes
cereals such as rice and wheat followed by
Beta ji, who's Rosesh family for few months
Legumes containing soybeans will make your pulses healthy
Potato and brinjal will go to Sonesh
The family now has viability for months
One thing you have to remember, son, that
is it about the cryo preservation you pollen
You can also store grains for a long time
what do you say for this
Cryo preservation what do you say cryo
Preservation That Is How You Can Store Pollen
grain at -16 degree centigrade in
Liquid
Nitrogen Liquid Nitrogen, son
You can store it, it is called cryo
Preservation and this is how it is done in pollen
banks well this is how it is done in pollen
You will remember the pegs by storing them in a pollen mag
what will you do with plant breeding
I will use them in my experiments later
Isn't it a breeding experiment?
will use ok so with this we are done
with me part that is sman and the endrum
If everyone is 100% clear then the session
why not like
I quickly liked the kids session
please come on fastly fastly like the session
Its second part will be out tomorrow, tomorrow's chapter
If you complete it then son you will read the next part
let's move on that's the female part
what do we call the female part
carpal carpal and pistol okay pistol and
it is called as the mega spora gium
Megasporophyll
megasporophyll what was that
Microsporophyll leaf Microsporophyll
This is the megasporophyll if a carpel is
If you look carefully, son, it has only three
There are parts, you can do them from small classes
the receptive part is above
called as the stigma stigma okay it's
dandy is called style and this is my
what is ovary stigma style
Ovary is fine, what is present inside this ovary
There are small ovules
what ultimately makes a seed
make seeds and what the ovary ultimately is
She makes it, she makes fruits, then son
there is empty space in it too see empty space empty
place inside the ovary this is called as a local
empty space inside the ovary this is called as the
local is ok maybe inside a flower
Single ovary or multiple ovaries
If you can then you are single
is single
There may be ovulation or even multiple ovulation
Can multiple ovules be produced from a single ovule
meaning later only one seed will be formed because
The ovule has to produce seeds. Multiple ovules
means multiple seeds will be formed now in which one you have
I have seen a single seed, tell me it is only one mango
There is a seed, there are a few multiples
Wheat Rice Cereals Cereals Wheat Rice Mezze
Burley Peat Rice Mezze
Burley They all have a single ovule
And what does the ovule later become - the seed?
creates multiple ovules in which you have lot of
See all the seeds son there are many of your
Papaya is papaya, how many seeds are there
Watermelon gets upset then Watermelon
Half the people don't eat it because the seeds are
There are a lot of them, isn't it? It's watermelon, right?
Brinjal is done, how many seeds are there in brinjal
are brinjal your green chillies i.e.
How many seeds are there in chilli?
If it is more then it means that there are more ovulation
There may be only one ovule inside the ovary and
There can be multiples too, let's talk now
Can also be gynocentric if there is only one
If it is carpal then it will be called monocarpellary
Monocarpellary
Monocarpellary Ganocillium
Now if the son is multiple then there will be two cases
may be either connected or interconnected
I will be free, I told those who joined
goes to sin carpus multicarpellary sin
What does corpus sin corpus mean fused
means fused that is his bisk
For example, he is a biscuit, he is a biscuit, so son, every
Place entered China Rose he bisque that is
China Rose
Papaver what do they have multicarpellary
Fuse gyno shyam den son ji we have
It can also be free, which our people call
is papo carpus what does papo carpus say
free that is michaelia and lotus
Rose is fine Michaelia Lotus Rose is fine so
Whose story is this about our gynoecium?
Does he have one carpal or more?
there's more carpal now a little inside you
Let's go inside, inside whose ovary should we go
what do you see inside the ovary
Ovule and what is ovule
mega what is the full name megasporophyll
Remember this whole is megasporophyll
What you see inside the profile
megaspore geum so see son megaspore
Geonium See Megaspore Geonium Structure
Let's take the ovule's then moving on to
ovule ovule what is my megaspore
Gem ultimately son me female gamete
What do you ultimately want to make a female
If gametes are to be made then the same sporophyll
Spore gyum in sporophyll Spore gyum in sporophyll
Mummy Cell Meiosis Meiosis of Mummy Cell
By doing this our people will fight game from gamet
If we make it then we will move in the same line wise manner
If I look at the structure of the ovule I'm
Going to draw annatto pas ovules large sare
the way ovulation occurs so its
It is not in the syllabus but trust yourself
Forming an ovule that looks upside down
well entrust ovule when you carefully
You will see, I will show you in the ovule
his clothes he is wearing clothes son
they are called as the intentions multiple
There are intentions
are ok
look at this ovule are you watching enos
I am making ovules
have a look at
this is it now my children this ovule it is
actually attached to the wall of the ovary this
My ovule is this, son, from the ball of the ovary
attached there is a stick what is here a
The stalk is the ovary ball. With the help of this stalk, the ovary ball is
Attached is what do we call this stick
what do you say funicular
They call it funicular, so this is what I got from Dandi
I have made The Dandy is basically
funicle what is this
it's funicular okay what is this my
kids funicular
Is
Look basically son this is my
Funicular
watching out
yes to everyone so what does it do
Attachs
Oval to the Wall of
ovary u the wall of ovary is ok i have children
This is what happened to the funicle and what else can you say
you can you can say stock okay now
look there is a point here this point
where my funicular is, from there
attached to the ovule that's the point
called as hylam it is an attachment of
Funicular with the ovule see this like 90
The degree angle is being formed here
point is called as hilum this point is
called as hilum this is the point where
But the funicle is attached to the ovule
say to these attaches
Funicular with ovule is ok with ovule
It's clear to everyone now, if you pay attention
You will see this center portion
this hole area is visible this is ours
What is present inside this ovule
Embryo sack will be made now, this is going
To be an embryo, we will make the details now
I am an embryo suck embryo suck I actually
Female Gametophytes
tissue is called as new
what is its name nasel this is parenchyma
tissue paran kaim tos tissue ok this is
called as nasel as now you will notice this
here he is wearing clothes
If you are asked what are you waiting for then you will be here
But the inner intake and outer intake will be visible
MENT TWO INTEX MENTS HAVE TWO LAYERS OF CLOTH
wearing this is inner
integument inner integument and here
But what do you see outside
The integument is two layers
for whom will it be for protection
what will you call it by tag me
can you okay what will happen by tag
it will be okay outer integration
The inner tag is now a point where
these are not clothes this is not intake look
They're wearing it all over the place
But here these intakes are not there so
the point where in the game they are absent this
point is called as micro pile is point
what do we call micro pile
They say what is the interest here
They are absent, can you see them in the middle?
What is Absent and Micro Pile here
Just opposite of this, look at this micro pile
it is just opposite to what is happening here
will go to me
Laja is ok what is chalaja called
Base Off
don't make the ovule base lower, what is the base
hai upar wala laja laja is basically the base
of ovule and which ovule have I seen
I have made annatto ovule by the way I have it with me
Ortho Tropane Micro Pile Up and Then
go here then the funicular is like this
I'm telling you just make two of them
I will show you that there are multiple types
Look, let's assume that this is how I am
Ovule
here look this is what i made ortho troppus
There is a micro pile here
There is a laza and what is this funicle
If the micro pile is in a chalaza and funicle is
be in line this is basically called s
Orthotopic
Rotate this one 180 degrees
just reverse it if you turn 180 degrees
If you rotate it then the scene will become like this
Your scene will become like this, see below
The micro pile will come up and the cheat will come up
what will become of you this is your fickle
My Enos
anotome ovule in angiosperms this is the
Most Common
Forest OK is most common in angiosperms
Common Inn
angiosperms ok kids
Angiosperms are clear to everyone
what is ovule
megaspore inside this megasporangia your
what is the embryo sac which is the
Female Gametophytes
But we will see what is better than ovulation
Megaspore zymium followed by NCERT
I will teach you don't worry about megaspores from this
How will the embryo sac be formed inside
I had made the embryo sack embryo, right?
What is SAC? Female Gametophytes
what are my female gametophytes
what are you sitting there, is it a present
new salest abhi new
Salest cell shown just a while ago
Parenchyma cells are this new cellsword
These are all cells of my parenchyma
One of the cells in the nucleolus which is a micro
He is present on the pile
Differentiable
which is named after the megaspore mother cell
remember any one cell at micro pile end
is at micro pilot and what will it do
Differentiable
that is
MGMC Megaspore Mother Cell
Mega
pore mother cell fine
There is a PDF, son Sonu Gupta, only then you will get it
When we will complete the portion, when we will write it
then tell me how to give pdf like this
how can you give like this
When you look at the anther, how many will you see
how many mummy cells were there were mmc
Microspore mother cell because sporo genes
Tissue all cells are microspore mother cell
I used to make it whenever there was only one cell here
How much does just one cell become a mummy cell
MGMC is only one, this is MGMC
This will be a large sale of MGMC
will have dense cytoplasm and this
It's MGMC, whose side will MGMC be on
Chalaja or micro pile then this is going to
B towards very important NCERT
Whose side is the line, my children?
Now we will move forward towards micro pile
what are people gonna do mega sporo
This megaspore mommy is going to do genesis
Megaspore from cell Mother cell We people
Megaspores will be created by Mega Sporo
Let's do the Genesis and let's start the
process of mega sporo
Genesis Mega
Sporo genesis is ok to start
Mega Sporo Genesis is about to come
Never mind, go ahead son, I have done it
I have to go, it doesn't matter to me
You may or may not study, go ahead and do anything
Isn't it true that ma'am has to get it done and then leave
Well, the kid is probably studying with 40 kids.
Son, there are 50 classes here offline
Hundreds of students Thousand of
If students are studying then thousands of
One of the students must be a child
which is really going to yield results and I
I only want one, I don't need them all
It is right, I don't want all 25 lakhs
If only one lakh has to be selected then
If even one out of 1000 is coming then that is
ok everything will work right then megaspore mother cell
how many will there be, they are one, what is the level
2n what will it perform myosis perform
will they are going to undergo myosis
meiosis always occurs in mummy cells
I got myosis once I did myosis
Children how many cells will be formed from one meiosis
We know we will make four cells and these four
what will the cell be called megaspore
what would be called megaspore meiosis is a
reductional division then its ploidy level
How long will each megaspore last
2n now out of these the three megaspores are three
megaspores they are going to degenerate three then
Everything will get spoilt, only one will survive
one functional megaspore one remains okay
The one that is left, we will call it functional
Megaspores: Three will perish, one will survive
functional megaspores these are functional
Megaspore is what this is going to be towards
which and oh our this is going to be
Towards which and chalaja chalaja
wala towards chalaaj end ok chalaaj end
Right, my children, you have to remember that
Take it this way if you had ovulation
Look here I have four megaspores
Out of the remaining four, three got spoiled.
Which one from Chalaj end will survive here
okay this is going to be functional
Megaspore Now next we will discuss this functional megaspore
so let's say this is my
Functional
Megaspore what is it functional megaspore
what is its ploidy level son?
what is the ploidy level n is it ok
It will stop appearing, so the laptop will also shut down
Closed also increased
what was to be opened
youtube0 what was to be opened for my children
charging son actually i have only one
The charger and my iPad are charging fast
Even if I don't see it, it will work but the iPad
If it is closed then the class will be closed
This won't work right so where were we guys
The functional megaspore is now
What will be the free nucleus in megaspore?
division remember number one free nuclear
Divisions
will there be first free on number one
Nuclear
Division Free Nuclear Division means
The nucleus is dividing but
What does it mean that the cytoplast is not dividing?
Now how many cells are there in a cell with one nucleus?
The nucleus will arrive, two nuclei have arrived
First free nuclear division now second
do another one, second free nuclear
Division Second Pre Nuclear
Now beta ji how many divisions from two nuclei
there will be four how many will there be
It will become four, do one more, come on my
kids do one more thing that is going to be
Third Free Nuclear
Division Third Free Nuclear Division now
How much will it become from four? It's eight from four, right?
How many children will I have? I see eight
1 doti 4 pa 6 sa aa so how many here
Free nuclear division totalled three
Free nuclear division ended
Ultimately in one of my cells where there is a
The nucleus was A, now the one with N is the same
The nucleus is going to be happy and
How many will we have? Eight nuclei
Now these eight nuclei of mine will be
what will you do to yourself son
We will rearrange and divide the direction among three
I will say I will go upstairs, I will say three
I'll go downstairs and tell you what I am
I come to the center and I'm watching
I will say two and come to the center, that is
what is going to happen to them now
what is going to happen
What is going to happen with polarization
Polarization means its direction
How will the three divide the direction?
Look, these three nuclei will go up
I said I'll go upstairs and say I'll
I come to the center and say three
I will come down, okay the people above will do it again
See, you have also created a membrane around yourself
The one below has also put his around here
The membrane has formed, which means that now in this cell
how many nuclei do you see
Brother, the nucleus is only eight, one, two, three
pa 6 sa aa but how much are the sales
See how much it is, it's a big sale then
This is a sale from 2 3 4 5 6 i.e now
how has this become to me this has become
A Seven
Celled at Nucleated Structure Seven
celled at nucleated structure and this
The structure is called as the embryo sac and
This embryo sac is basically our female
Gametophytes
the male gametophytes
So to make an embryo sac I need
I need a mommy cell from that one mommy cell
microspore and one from a microspore
the embryo sac is formed here this is the
Female
The game is that the embryo sac at the cell at
Nucleated at Cell Seven Nucleated Seven
cell adet nucleated then you should know
I want what is the cell number seven more
How many nuclei are there? Eight nuclei each
why is it because there are three free nuclei
Three free divisions are made here
It is made from nuclear division, okay let's go
Then we can make the embryo again after sucking it
are the embryo sacs my babies that is the
Female Gametophytes
is this the first thing you saw
it is called polygonum
Polygonum Saw Saw In Polygonum Plant
if i went then this is polygonum embryo suc
the second thing is my children from the same megaspore
Make your attention from a single megaspore
The whole embryo sac became one
we can call it megaspore
You are monosporic and you have a single megaspore
be made from this is called as monosporic
Monosporic Embryo Sac Monosporic
embryo is ok same monosporic
The Bigger
Do you have a sale? What is this? The big one you have
Cell
is which is called as a central cell and
I'm drawing me down here
Son, do two big cells below and do your work
There's a cell at the back here, which is on the bottom side
but you see these two cells
We call them Signer Jits now
Labeling the entire embryo sac
How many signers are there, there are two behind this
You can see a cell on the side, this work is
This is my egg cell Egg cell how much is it
The forest is visible. Okay, how much of the forest is visible?
On the top side my children you will find three
You will see cells here, there are three
We ran up the nucleus of these cells
what do people say what is entypo sales
Let's say how many antipodal cells are there
there are three okay which end is the clause end
this end is clause end my children
You should know Salajal and Pay
If they are antipodal then which end should this be?
will go micro pile micro pile and pay
Who will be my signer? They will be Jats then son
Let us talk about the center portion again
Who are you talking about in the center portion?
that if you look in the yes center portion
I'll get two more nuclei and these two
The nucleus they are called as polar nucleus
Both the I and V ends come together for fertilization
At that time, the secondary nucleus will be formed polar
Nuclear Eye, what would you call it, polar
Will the nucleus have ploidy level?
What can we say about the middle cell?
it is called a big cell this is called edge
You can call it central cell. This is central cell.
and I have two near the central cell
the nucleus is visible, that is, these
How is the central cell bi-nucleated?
How is it bi-nucleated so total seven cells
Now there are three antipodals and one central
Sale done, one egg sale done and two signers
If it is all done then there are seven nuclei and
I have seven cells now and when will I have eight?
there will be nucleus okay this is what
Below you can see the egg cell and
Signor Root What do these together make this hole
structure is called as egg
What does apet make? Egg apet
actually the pollen tube that comes
We also have that pollen tube with micro piler
penetrating micropillar enters through the penis
I go to the egg store, who helps me?
do they have helper cell who is the helper cell
my signor jud signor jud actually pollen
Let me guide the tube so that brother you can come here
you have to come inside from here don't come from upstairs okay
So if I talk about Signer Jits
Signers then sign actually
Guide The Pollen Tube Guide to this
If you guide the pollen tube then let them guide you
pollen tube that you need micro piler end
If you go inside from here then you can see this also
Remember that the pollen tube is a micro pile end
It goes in from here only and does not go in from the red end
ok actually actually son
They have to release particular chemical like this
Here is the filiform atus this is
one is basically the filiform
Upet Ye Jo Filiform
The eratum emerges from the stem which gives the pollen tube its
attracts towards chemotropic
What type of chemo happens with the movement of the pollen tube
tropic movement so what do they have pili
Form
Erratum hey that one the kid gave me
I had told you the technique but I am unable to follow it
Wait now let's do the filiform eratum
Releases a chemical which helps in the chemo
Tropic Movement of Pollen
tube is ok chemo tropic
movement okay what happens is that when this pollen
attracting the tube towards itself
I am one of the signers who sacrificed themselves
gives before the entry of pollen tube
Second Signer Zeit after the Entry of Polan
tube so basically cyanogen is that friend egg
The one who sells his friend for his friend
sacrifice themselves for the marriage of
ok brother i am ready to die
Just enter at the right place, you are my egg cell
if you reach there one dies before
the second from the entry of the pollen tube
One is made to die, but so are those who die
one of the signer jatt so basically beta ji
I saw a friend who is making sacrifices
You who sacrificed your life, sign
I am requested, it is there, I asked you in a riddle
Such a signer should go who sacrifices his life
You'll say signer jut one of the
Signer Jatt Degenerate
before the entry of pollen tube b for e
Before son, I wrote it in SS language
Entry of Pollen Tube and Others
one another degenerate after the entry of pole
Tube Butt both of them have to die
what should we do, we should die, okay both of us
what to do if you want to die then start
My children start pistol from NCERT
I'm done pistol I'm basically done I'll try
I am here to put it on charging
Our
He is the best friend, you are right friend, such a best friend
Friend, you must not have seen the real thing anywhere
Humans don't have such a best friend in life
My best friend is not such that he would sacrifice his life for me
that we should sacrifice ourselves, they are finished
Best friend, now son, you are just like this in plants
best friend that is your signor jud let's go
Let's quickly look at the first question
Can Pistol Megaspore Gym And Amio Suck Together
no son the pistol is megasporophyll
ovule is megaspore embryo suck is
Female Gametophytes
What is nom female reproductive part
Let's see one by one how far it is
have to do this have to do this have to do pollination
I've got you covered before
Pollination 100% 4 marks question
he comes and
than double fertilization post fertilization
event this we will do pollination tomorrow so I
I will write down a lot
Great, let's do a read, let's go once.
just see the cow comments over and its been so long
I couldn't see the comment
No friend, son, I will not call him 2n right now
it still has two nuclei when
When the time for fertilization comes, the central cell
What happens by joining two polar nuclei of
will create a 2n secondary nucleus
I haven't made it yet I haven't made it yet ok
So the gynoecium consists of this
There could also be a single pistol which
Is it monocarpellary or more than one?
There could also be a pistol which
multicarpellary bola hai when there are more
than one pistol they can also be fuse
Papo can be sin corpus or free
Corpus is now saying look at the figure for this
1.7 and 1.72 watch my children first
What are you saying? Look at the photo very carefully
This is where I come, see a photo
whose ducted fly of bucks showing pistol
The rest of the floral parts have been removed
See this has stigma, this has style and this
Where is the ovary? Where is the ovary sitting? First on the thalamus
Figure Clear Second Figure See Multi
carpal sun carpus pistol of power power
Example given by sin corpus
multicarpellary has many carpels
the ends are connected what is connected
Sin
corpus of whose power
Papa and Papa keep everybody together, right?
Papa is the one who keeps the whole family together
So the ovaries that Papa has are attached
hui hai sin carpus multicarpellary is ok
The multicarpellary papo carpus Ganocillium
All are carpals, they are not fused together
where do you see this michaelia
So what are these two? Multicarpellary
what is the multicarpellary difference son
is connected is sin corpus and this
is unfused whose name is papo corpus
These diagrams have become clear
Let's see what the last diagram says
Diagrammatic view of typical annatto
ovule annatto ovule told you
In anato pus ovule this is reversed
It's made, nothing else, the water is gone
Look at the ends of the Chala Jal and Beach
I suck embryo and this is all
parenchyma tissue this is called as new
Cellstat's integument external intake
Where there is no integument, that is micro
pile pole will become micro pile and this
Dundi son ji funicular this Dundi where
What is it called that is attached to the ovule
our people, has your higham been cleared, which one?
ovule is this ana topas how is ovule
anato pas ovule now let's read it now
Let's read it, okay, let's say it now.
have each pistol has three parts stigma
style ovary stigma son ji a landing
The platform for pollen grains is here
The pollen grains will come and stay, son, one
Slender is a long part without the stigma
the basal thick part the bulge part of the pistol is
a called as ovary an empty space inside the ovary
What did I teach you about the empty space
I have taught you a line, what is its name
The placenta is located inside the
Ovarian cavity recall the definition of
placentation that you studied tell me who
NCERT will tell you to recall the poem
my plus kids do it
will take what was taught about placentation
Placentation is the arrangement of the ovule
How the ovules are arranged inside the ovary
are like marginal presentation
All those seen in peas are on the ventral suture
Provides free central placentation agile
Placentation Basal placentation arrangement
of ovule inside the ovary that is called s
Placentation four questions three to four
Questions can come from here, son
Arising from the placenta in the placenta
What will be made from Microspongia? Apply it on your face
what people say ovule is ok then empty
The place is the placenta inside it
What will the ovule number of the placenta make?
There can be any number of ovules, even just one
can be used like Veet Paddy Paddy Mane
Rice paddy means rice is one of them and
There can also be multiples, like how many
Papaya has seeds and watermelon has seeds
okay now let's talk about orchids
megaspore that is the ovule of the zygote
is a small structure attached to the
Placenta by means of a stock called edge
This is a funicular direct question here, son.
With whose help is the ovule attached to the ovary
From the ball to the placenta then you will say dandy
Dundee is called as funicular the body of
The Ovule Fuse With the Funicle in the Region
of hilum now where is the ovule and funicle
But joining in the Hilam area is ten
Hilam Represents the Junction Between
ovule and funicle this is very
important dash is a junction between
the funicle and the ovule you will answer
The hilum contains one to two follicles near each ovule.
There will be protective covering which will be called
In this game, in this gumt son who nasel ass
Circles around Accept at a Tip
Where our people call it micro
No Integration on Pile Micro Pile
we have seen it just from micro pile
what will you say to the opposite end which is
what is the base of the ovule right what is it
The base of the old one, every line has been learned ho
I went because I had written it all down
Children, we read NCERT by writing
So that we do not face any problem in NCERT reading
No, you will read half of the NCERT directly
You will forget things after NCERT notes
If you read it, you will remember everything. Okay, you will remember everything.
will remain enclosed within the integument is a
Mass of sale named New
lots of food material parenchyma
is it located in the nullius is embryo
SAC and the female gametophyte form a single
Embryo Sac From
A megaspore is a single megaspore
embryo sac is formed only then embryo sac
what did you say to monosporic did you say it right
Because only one embryo can be produced from one megaspore
Is the sac forming or the embryo sac forming?
Megaspore is now being formed from megaspore
Megaspores will become megaspores
mummy sale se buy a process which is
called edge
megasporophyll differentiated
See this is the difference between male and female
There are many MMCs and many microspore mothers
There were cells but there is only one mummy cell here
Remember, a female's mother is a male's mother
There are many mommies, okay, a female mommy is one
Where and in which region is the micro pile region
A cell from the micro pile region of the nacelle
The differentiable and prominent nucleus is
We have written it all, I will read it out to you
I am telling you that NCERT is not tough for you
if you study from seep mam then you have to give it
Mommy Cell Will Undergo Meiotic Division What
is the importance of mummy sale undergoing
Why is myosis important? Look at this myosis
only then will the male and female game come together
Will meiosis create a diploid structure?
what will happen from megaspores will become saying
here is figure 8 1.8 look let's see this
We have done it all, look this is my mom
The cell is the megaspore mother cell quite prominent
Nucleus is end micro pile red end
Then beta ji what are you saying large
megaspore cell a dyad and a
Tetradotoxin
Majority of flowering plants one of the
The megaspore is functional One megaspore will survive
The rest of the three will degenerate
What will happen with only the functional megaspore
Your Commito fight will become the method of
Embryo formation from a single megaspore
is called as monosporic bata diya
monosporic development what will be the
Ploidy of ten cells of the null MMC
Functional Megaspores and Gametophytes
Ploidy level of Nucleus is asked for in four
Ploidy level of the megaspore mother cell
Ploidy level of megaspore and female
Gametophytes
dash dash dash dash
comma dash comma dash comma dash comma dash
tell me first you had to tell me about nudes
Level of megaspore mother cell
then megaspore's padi level and then you
I want to tell you that they are female gametophytes
Tell me the ploidy level is four, son, not three
there should be four common dashes, tell me
what are you writing like this
yes
yes all the children will tell in the answer
very good pooja right answer 4 answers came
I want one, won't it come, very good, so nasel as
me lus is a parenchyma cell still there is no
We have not done any myosis of Nasel AS
what will be the ploidy level 2n very good
megaspore mother cell still in mother cell
myosis has not happened, it has to happen, it means
what will be its ploidy level also
pass 2n now when megaspore is in mother cell
What is formed by meiosis? Megaspore
The ploidy level of the megaspore will be n
Because meiosis is reductional division and that
What will become of female gametophytes
should have come
Very good almost everyone answered correctly
Isn't it? Almost everyone gave the right answer, very
Good kids let us study about the formation
of embryo suck in detail now this paragraph
This is a very important question from here every year
The Nucleus of the Functional comes every year
megaspore divides
mitotically you form a two nucleus f
moves to the opposite following forming two
Nucleated amio suck now son ji
The megaspore is formed and it contains three large meiosis
The first meiosis will result in two nuclei being formed
More Sequential Mitotic Nuclei
Then four nuclei are formed during division and then
Total Eight Nucleated Free Nuclear
Division is this, what kind of myosis I told you
How much did you get for free nuclear power?
myosis
how much pollen grain was there one to two
Vegetative and germ cells and then germ cells
further gametophytes in
to note that these mitotic divisions are
Strictly free nuclear means in this
Cytokinetics
hogi that is nuclear division are not
Immediate follow by cell wall formation same
The cell wall will not form in time, it will form later
After at nucleated stage it is achieved
cell walls are laid down leading to the
Organization of typical gametophytes
When they arrive, the cell wall will be built up
Antipodals will be separated by different signs
Excel will be different Observe the
Let's see the distribution of these sales now
Six of the eight nucleus are surrounded by
Cell walls and organized into two cell walls
So son, let's make a cell wall on top
antipodal and the egg above the bottom remaining two
Nuclei I called as polar nuclei
Situated below the egg up in the large
The word central cell is very important
Two of my children in the central cell from the elder one
the nucleus is located beneath the egg cell
What is below the central egg appet
sale is ok just remember below ok so this
Look, this is its micro mylar end
siner roots is egg cell this is middle cell is
the central cell which has two polar
the nuclei are antipodal to the top okay
below the egg upt as bolenge toh this is
Situated
Below the Egg
Now the kids write Billo beta ji
what do you want to say, you have to say it below, there is
A Characteristic Distribution of Sales
with in the embryo sac three cells are
Group together at the micro pile and jisco
Egg Upet will say Egg Upet has two signers
Sarged will have a son with roots and an X-cell
Yes, it is a special thickening which our people call
are filiform erratic which form the pollen tube
which helps to guide the Chalal end
There are three cells, it is called antipodal, the last
Give the two cells in the central cell
Nucleus Polar Nuclear will say end
Typical angiosperm has seven cells at
Nucleated structures
it's okay it's so this is our mail
and female part now which tomorrow we will do pollination
We are going to do a four mark question here
how many four marks do you want this is 100% 100%
There are many types of pollination, son, we
People will learn every line from here
And tomorrow we will take it forward again and double it
Fertilization and then post fertilization
Re a little pert
R ok my kids this is clear today's one
If the potion is 100% cleared then like the session
Why didn't you quickly complete all the remaining sessions?
Like it, like the come on guys session
Friend is waiting
am done for today
do it quickly
from Pratham ji when the time comes you will take it, right?
If you are in a hurry then my link
Look at the one shot from the tree, my son
Linktree is one of the best link tree
okay if it comes in the file then green that will be
go to NMC website see this
where do I have to go I have to go to g I have opened it
G G I want to put it on the oyster pahujja penis tree hey
ok here comes the sea pahujja in the ling tree
First of all you have to open the link
Pratham ji has gone to the 2024 series.
I am teaching for you I am teaching for you
anytime see one shot of anyone one of the
Best One Shot with Million of Views and the
There is no shortage of best content
Rahti beta mere one of the best one shot
Which chapter will you find here
Which sexuality do you want to reveal?
reproduction flowering plants are all
My children, whichever chapter you want to see
look okay ji one shot two shot this today
Son, I am of today's time,
The format in which you taught me
I want to read it in that format, read it now
I'm going to teach you the details now
I am teaching you in such a way that you ask questions
You will be able to take out one shot when the time will come in March and
April will come, you will get four hours in just four
I have no desire to sit for 10-10 hours
I wish that friend you come to me on time
Get free from it and study other subjects
I want to see my one shot, it is available
I told you to look at the details, son
Don't be a little like that, become smart like this
Don't sit here like a fool and say do this
Do that, everything has been done, go and take it
I don't trust the person in front of me, ma'am I didn't even pick up the roti
The plate lying in front of you is going, pick it up na yes
come on kids so whichever child attended this
What has that child done? Please comment and tell me
It will be a great comment for all the kids
It is important that our offer is extended, son
Now you can get 50 off till 23rd December
You are getting the code, what do you need to apply?
Life, my batch is already going on, you are in that batch
You may have already enrolled in the
Phoenix All Star Fast Track Batch One Of
The Best Batch is also Phoenix's
The first test series has also been launched
Test son, this test series is on Sunday
Who is not paying, everyone has to enrol in this
One of the best test in test series
The series is on December 22, the first test
Six part length and 10 full length test
India's top educators by us son
Yes, we have curated detailed solutions and
Son, you are with thousands of learners
You must be fighting in this, okay fight together
You will also be sharing the link of this test series
I have given below, all the children will take this test
Everyone must enroll in the series and get tested
give just give
yes it's ok i have to pay it, ok it will be paid
Sons and children, it will be alright,
okay okay thank you so much guys now I
I will meet you tomorrow, what will we say about this chapter
I will do it I will finish it
[music]
And after that, son, I have to do which chapter
Let me know in the comments and then I will
lunch that session okay so tomorrow this chapter
let's finish it thank you so much guys tech
Care
And please do comment before leaving any child attending
whether one or two are attending as many
Did you understand it or not? Please comment on it.
I will do it, okay, thank you so much guys
take care